Introduction

Poker Face is one of the challs in 2024 WhiteHack CTF competition.
It is one of the more interesting / fun CTF question I had done :).

Challenge Catagory: Crypto
Challenge Name: Poker Face
Challenge Point / Challenge Difficulty: 1000 / 1 star

Challenge File: png image which contains details on some poker cards
Text Format: 2SPADE _ 8SPADE 2CLUB 3DIAMOND 8HEART _ 3HEART KDIAMOND 8HEART 10CLUB KDIAMOND 8CLUB _ 9CLUB KDIAMOND 9SPADE KDIAMOND 8HEART

Challenge Description: 
I am a poker champ with a poker face. I'm going on a journey to decipher this mysterious message sent to me by a fan. Come along and help me out!
This journey is going to be very loooong and very tiresome. If you're bored, maybe you can buy a hint to find out more about me. We could share fun facts about ourselves!

Challenge Hint:
Thanks for speaking to me. It was starting to get a little awkward over here. Here are some fun facts about myself:
* My dad used to call me Ace. He always told me it's because Ace is synonymous with being best, and we always saved the best for last. I love being called Ace.
* I am known as the Calculating genius because I have an unparalleled ability to calculate odds and read opponents
* Duck are my favorite animals
* I have a huge Hat collection
* My favorite Sauce is mentaiko
* I love eating salads

Challenge Update / Issue:
Regarding the Cryptography's Poker Face Challenge, there was an issue with the flag format. 

[PLEASE ATTEMPT THIS QNS BEFORE LOOKING AT THE SOLUTION]



CHALLENGE SOLUTION

This solution was a joint effort made by my friend and I after the competition has ended. 
We were unable to figure out the way to solve it during the competition, and only managed to finally obtain the flag afterwards.
We were unable to come up with a concrete way to do this question and spent quite a fair bit of time trying to decipher it.

Steps Taken
1. Thought process
With the question titled "Poker Face", we could confirm some of the details.
- 52 cards in a card deck (excluding jokers)
- 26 alphabets, meaning that each card will most likely represent either a UPPERCASE or lowercase alphabet

2. Challenge hints
After the challenge ended the first thing we did was to check out the challenge hint, and it was very informative.

- "we always saved the best for last" -> suggested that Ace is probably at the bottom of the deck (i.e. starts with 2,3,4...J,Q,K,A)
- The capitalisation of "C","D","H","S" within the next few lines suggested there was something important to it. Upon analysis, coincidentally they match with the suites of cards, "Clubs","Diamonds", "Hearts", "Spades"
- "I love eating salad". It seemed kinda odd to us at first, what can it relate to? We thought that it was a red herring.
- While doing we realised that since we were converting to numbers, salad might have been an indirect hint for "caesar cipher" because of "casesar salad".

3. Relooking at the question
Upon further analysis of the cards in the question, we realised that there were multiple instances of "KingDiamond" and assumed that it would most likely be a vowel.
The answer seems to be either a phrase or a sentence, with the underscores dictating its a new word
Hence by this logic, the first letter for "2Spade" would most likely correspond to either "A" or "I".

4. 
